#Creating an Amazon EC2 virtual server instance

Sign in to the Amazon Web Services Management console.

Go to Services > Compute, and click EC2.
The system displays the EC2 Management Console page.

Click Launch Instance.
On the Choose an Amazon Machine Image (AMI) page, search for a Linux AMI, and click Select.
You must select an image that includes the AWS command line tools.

On the Choose an Instance Type page, select an instance type, and click Next: Configure Instance Details.

On the Configure Instance Details page, do the following:
In the Network field, click a VPC network.
In the Network interfaces section, assign an IP address.
Click Next: Add Storage.
On the Add Storage page, leave the default settings, and click Next: Add Tags.
On the Add Tags page, add a tag, and click Next: Configure Security Group.
On the Configure Security Group page, create a new security group or select an existing security group, and click Review and Launch.
On the Review Instance Launch page, review the details of each configuration, and then click Launch.

On the Select an existing key pair or create a new key pair dialog box, select one of the following options:

Choose an existing key pair: If you select this option, perform the following:

From the Select a key pair drop-down list, select a key pair.

Select the I acknowledge that I have access to the selected private key file (<example.pem>), and that without this file, I won't be able to log into my instance check box.

Create a new key pair: If you select this option, perform the following:

In the Key pair name field, type a name for the private key file. The extension of the private key file is .pem.

Click Download Key Pair.

Save the file in a secure and accessible location.

Note:
You will not be able to download the file again.

Proceed without a key pair: If you select this option, select the I acknowledge that I will not be able to connect to this instance unless I already know the password built into this AMI check box.

Click Launch Instances.
The system creates the virtual server instance.

Click Launch Status, and click View instance.
When the system creates an instance, the Status Checks column displays the message: 2/2 checks passed.